DEPRECATED - DO NOT MERGE W-13582136 ACB structure hn (#55)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/tutorial-add-request-response-details.adoc

= Add Request and Response Details

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

You can define request and response details for your API specification.

== Before You Begin

Before getting started, ensure you:

* Set up your MuleSoft environment. +
See xref:setup.adoc[] for more information.
* Created a basic structure for your API specification. +
See xref:design-api-specification.adoc[].

== Add Data Types and Example Fragments from Exchange

> . In Anypoint Code Builder, open your `american-flights-api.raml` file.

Reviewer: If we don't want to mention VS Code, at least I would mention:

"In your Anypoint Code Builder view, open..."

. Open the Command Palette (`ctrl/cmd + shift + P`) and type _MuleSoft: Add fragment dependency from Exchange_.
+
image::add-fragment-from-exchange.png[]
. Add the `Training: American Flight Data Type` asset.
+
image::add-training-american-flight.png[]
. Select the latest version of the `American Flight Data Type` asset.
+
image::add-flight-data-type-version.png[]

> . The status bar shows a *Dependencies successfully added* message.

Reviewer 2: My VSCode is not displaying this message to me.

Reviewer 2: It took some time, but it appeared :)

. Open the Command Palette (`ctrl/cmd + shift + P`) and type _MuleSoft: Add fragment dependency from Exchange_.
+
image::add-fragment-from-exchange.png[]
. Add the `Training: American Flights Example` asset.
+
image::add-training-example.png[]
. Select the latest version of the `American Flights Example` asset.
+
image::add-training-example-version.png[]

> . The status bar shows a *Dependencies successfully added* message.

Reviewer 2: My VSCode is not displaying this message to me.

. In the Package Explorer, you can see both API fragments that you imported:
* *AmericanFlightDataType.raml* defines an object corresponding to the definition of a flight.
* *AmericanFlightsExample.raml* defines the example of data that the flights API returns.
+
image::imported-assets.png[]

== Add Data Type to your API Specification

Use your imported fragments as types for your API specification:

. Open the *american-flight-api.raml* file in the editor tab.
. Before the `/flights` resource, add a `types` element, go to a new line and press `tab` to add an indentation
. Add a type named `AmericanFlight:`:
+
[source,RAML]
--
#%RAML 1.0
title: American Flights API

types:
  AmericanFlight:

/flights:
  get:
    queryParameters:
      destination:
        required: false
        enum:
          - SFO
          - LAX
          - CLE
  post:

  /{ID}:
    get:
--

> . Add an `!include` directive and press `ctrl + spacebar` to bring up the autocomplete options.

Reviewer 2: ctrl + spacebar is not working for me.

Reviewer 3: G

Reviewer: Try `fn + ctrl + spacebar`.

. Select `AmericanFlightsDataType.raml`.
+
[source,RAML]
--
#%RAML 1.0
title: American Flights API

types:
  AmericanFlight: !include exchange_modules/68ef9520-24e9-4cf2-b2f5-620025690913/training-american-flight-data-type/1.0.1/AmericanFlightDataType.raml

/flights:
  get:
    queryParameters:
      destination:
        required: false
        enum:
          - SFO
          - LAX
          - CLE
  post:

  /{ID}:
    get:
--

> . Add a new child element at the same level as `queryParameters`, right after:
> +
> [source,RAML,linenums]
> --
> enum:
>           - SFO
>           - LAX
>           - CLE
> 
> --

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Inside the `get:` method of your `/flights` resource, add a new child element `responses` at the same level as `queryParameters`.
```
The element to be added is not mentioned (it only appears in the example). And I'm deleting the `enum` example as it's not needed here.

Reviewer 2: @dmerlob, please, can you make this change in the other PR?: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-code-builder/pull/57/files. Thanks!

+

> . Press `ctrl + spacebar` to bring up the autocomplete options, and add the elements:

Reviewer 2: ctrl + spacebar is not working for me.

Reviewer: Try `fn + ctrl + spacebar`.

> . Add a new child element at the same level as `queryParameters`, right after:
> +
> [source,RAML,linenums]
> --
> enum:
>           - SFO
>           - LAX
>           - CLE
> 
> --
> +
> . Press `ctrl + spacebar` to bring up the autocomplete options, and add the elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add a new child element at the same level as `queryParameters`. Press `ctrl + spacebar` to bring up the autocomplete options, and add the elements:
```
I would unify this as providing the `enum:` example here is confusing and we're already mentioning at which level.

> * `responses`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The elements below mentioned are inside `responses`

Reviewer 2: @dmerlob, please, can you make this change in the other PR?: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-code-builder/pull/57/files. Thanks!

> * `200`

Reviewer: `responses` does not provide `200` as an option.

* `body`
* `application/json`
* `type`

> . For the `type` element, press `ctrl + spacebar` and select the `AmericanFlight` type.

Reviewer 2: ctrl + spacebar is not working for me.

Reviewer: Try `fn + ctrl + spacebar`.

. Add `[]` at the end of your `AmericanFlight` type to define it as an array.
+
[source,RAML]
--
#%RAML 1.0
title: American Flights API

types:
  AmericanFlight: !include exchange_modules/68ef9520-24e9-4cf2-b2f5-620025690913/training-american-flight-data-type/1.0.1/AmericanFlightDataType.raml

/flights:
  get:
    queryParameters:
      destination:
        required: false
        enum:
          - SFO
          - LAX
          - CLE
    responses:
      200:
        body:
          application/json:
            type: AmericanFlight[]
  post:

  /{ID}:
    get:
--

== Add an Example Response

Create a new `example:` element for the `response` element for your `/flights` resource:

> . Add a new resource at the same level of your `type` response, press `ctrl/cmd + spacebar` to bring up the autocomplete options, and select `examples`.

Reviewer 2: ctrl + spacebar is not working for me.

Reviewer: Try `fn + ctrl + spacebar`.

> . Under examples, add an indentation, press `ctrl + spacebar`, and select *output*.

Reviewer 2: ctrl + spacebar is not working for me.

Reviewer: Try `fn + ctrl + spacebar`.

> . Add an `!include` directive and press `ctrl + spacebar` to bring up the autocomplete options.

Reviewer 2: ctrl + spacebar is not working for me.

Reviewer: Try `fn + ctrl + spacebar`.

    price: 400
    departureDate: 2017/07/26
    origin: CLE
    destination: SFO
    emptySeats: 0
    plane:
      type: Boeing 737
      totalSeats: 150
--
+
Notice that the ID parameter is missing since you don't have the flight ID when creating a new flight record.
. In your *american-flights-api.raml* file, define the response for your `post` method:
+
[source,raml,linenums]
--
#%RAML 1.0
title: American Flights API

types:
  AmericanFlight: !include exchange_modules/68ef9520-24e9-4cf2-b2f5-620025690913/training-american-flight-data-type/1.0.1/AmericanFlightDataType.raml

/flights:
  get:
    queryParameters:
      destination:
        required: false
        enum:
          - SFO
          - LAX
          - CLE
    responses:
      200:
        body:
          application/json:
            type: AmericanFlight[]
  post:
    body:
      application/json:
        type: AmericanFlight
        examples:
          input: !include examples/AmericanFlightNoIDExample.raml //<1>

  /{ID}:
    get:
      body:
        application/json:
          type: AmericanFlight
          examples:
            output: !include examples/AmericanFlightExample.raml
--
+
[calloutlist]

> .. Define the example file you created earlier as an example for your `/{ID}:post` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. The last/New example defined in your `examples` folder.
```
This calloutlist is referring to the last file added to the `examples` folder that we are now mentioning under the `post:` method.

Reviewer 2: @dmerlob, please, can you make this change in the other PR?: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-code-builder/pull/57/files. Thanks!

Additionally, you can define the type of response of your `post` method for your `/flights` resource:

. Add a new line under your `/flights:post` method and indent it at the same level as your `body:` element.

> . Press `ctrl + spacebar` to bring up the autocomplete options to create a 201 response:

Reviewer 2: ctrl + spacebar is not working for me.

Reviewer: Try `fn + ctrl + spacebar`.
